
The Department of Home Affairs (the Department) acknowledges that Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples
are the traditional custodians of the Australian land.
The Department of Home Affairs (the Department)
acknowledges that Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander peoples
are the traditional custodians of the Australian land.
Life in Australia – Australian values
The Australian Government encourages people to gain an
understanding of Australia, its people and their way of life,
before applying for a visa to live in Australia.
This includes understanding that the English language, as the
national language, is an important unifying element of
Australian society. Australian society is also united through the
following shared values:
• respect for the freedom and dignity of the individual;
• freedom of religion (including the freedom not to follow
a particular religion), freedom of speech, and freedom of
association;
• commitment to the rule of law, which means that all people
are subject to the law and should obey it;
• parliamentary democracy whereby our laws are determined
by parliaments elected by the people, those laws being
paramount and overriding any other inconsistent religious or
secular ‘laws’;
• equality of opportunity for all people, regardless of their
gender, sexual orientation, age, disability, race, or national or
ethnic origin;
• a ‘fair go’ for all that embraces:
– mutual respect;
– tolerance;
– compassion for those in need; and
– equality of opportunity for all.
The Life in Australia booklet provides more information on the
values that Australians share and their way of life. This booklet is
available in a wide range of languages and can be obtained from
www.homeaffairs.gov.au
You are encouraged to read the Life in Australia booklet before
completing this application form. If you have difficulty, or are
unable to read the booklet, you may have the content of it
explained to you, for example, by a friend or relative. This form
contains a statement, that you must sign, that confirms you
understand and will undertake to conduct yourself in accordance
with the values of Australian society (as explained in the booklet)
and will obey the laws of Australia.
This statement must also be signed by each person aged 18 years
or over, who is included in this form.
Who should use this application?
You should use this form if you are outside Australia and wish to
apply for entry to Australia on humanitarian grounds. This class
of visa includes the following 5 subclasses:
• Refugee (subclass 200)
• In-country Special Humanitarian (subclass 201)
• Global Special Humanitarian (subclass 202)
• Emergency Rescue (subclass 203)
• Woman at Risk (subclass 204).
You should also use this form if you are applying under the
Community Support Program.
About this form
Important – Please read this information carefully before you
complete your application. When you have completed your
application we recommend that you keep a copy for your
records.
Australia’s offshore Humanitarian Program
There are a limited number of places available each year under
the program. In setting the size of the program, the Australian
Government considers:
• the views of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees (UNHCR);
• the views of the Australian community; and
• Australia’s capacity to settle refugees and people in need.
Requirements for each visa subclass
Your application will be assessed against the 5 visa subclasses of
the Refugee and Humanitarian (Class XB) visa class. To be
granted a visa, you must be assessed as meeting the requirements
for one of these subclasses. These are set out in Australia’s
Migration Act and Regulations and the main requirements for
each subclass are:
Refugee (subclass 200)
• You are living outside your home country; and
• you are subject to persecution in your home country; and
• you are in need of resettlement.
The UNHCR provides advice to the Australian Government on
the need for resettlement.
In-country Special Humanitarian (subclass 201)
• You are in your home country; and
• you are subject to persecution.
Only a small number of places are available under this subclass.
Global Special Humanitarian (subclass 202)
• You are living outside your home country; and
• you are subject to substantial discrimination amounting to
gross violation of your human rights in your home country;
and
• you have included a valid form 681 Refugee and Special
Humanitarian Proposal with your application.
Form 681 needs to be completed by an Australian citizen or
permanent resident, eligible New Zealand citizen, or community
organisation in Australia (a ‘proposer’) who is willing to support
your application.
As the government does not fund travel costs for this visa
subclass, your proposer is expected to assist you and any
dependants in meeting costs associated with travel to Australia
and initial settlement after arrival.
Emergency Rescue (subclass 203)
• You are subject to persecution in your home country; and
• there are urgent and compelling reasons for you to be resettled
in Australia.
Requests for urgent assistance under this subclass are usually
made on your behalf by the UNHCR.
842 (Design date 10/24) - Page 2 © COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA, 2024
Woman at Risk (subclass 204)
• You are a woman living outside your home country; and
• subject to persecution in your home country or are registered
with the UNHCR as being ‘of concern’; and
• without the protection of a male relative; and
• in danger of victimisation, harassment or serious abuse
because you are female.
Children under 18
Children under the age of 18 who have no parents, or who have
been separated from their parents, may also be granted a visa in
one of the subclasses listed above. However, the Australian
Government must be satisfied the child’s entry to Australia is in
the best interest of the child and that the rights of the parents, if
any, are properly considered.
If any children under 18 who are members of the family unit
and included in this application are not your biological children,
you must provide information and documentation as to who
their birth parents are/were.
Community Support Program
The Community Support Program enables communities and
businesses, as well as families and individuals, to propose
applicants with employment prospects (and their families) and
to support their settlement in Australia. Only Approved
Proposing Organisations (APOs) may propose people for entry
to Australia in the Community Support Program.
Information about the Community Support Program is available
from the Department’s website www.homeaffairs.gov.au/CSP
Note: Your APO must complete form 1417 Community Support
Program Proposal by Approved Proposing Organisation. Your APO
must lodge both of these forms (form 842 and form 1417)
electronically following the directions on the Department’s
website https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au/help-support/
departmental-forms/online-forms/special-humanitarian-visasubmission-form or by post.
The Department will share your personal information that was
collected during the processing of your application with your
APO. If a visa is granted, this information may be used by the
APO to enable delivery of settlement services and support. Your
APO may also share your personal information with other
organisations, known as Supporting Community Organisations,
so they can provide services to you to help you settle in Australia.
‘Split family’ provisions for immediate family of permanent
Protection (Class XA), humanitarian (Class XB) or
Resolution of Status (Class CD) visa holders.
You should use this form if, within the last 5 years, a member of
your ‘immediate family’ was granted either a:
• permanent Protection visa (subclass 866); or
• humanitarian visa (subclasses 200, 201, 202, 203 or 204); or
• Resolution of Status (Class CD) visa (subclass 851).
Note: Your proposer must not have been an illegal maritime
arrival who arrived on or after 13 August 2012.
Note: Under the ‘split family’ provisions, ‘Immediate family’
means you are the spouse, de facto partner (including samesex partner), dependent child or in certain circumstances a
parent of the person in Australia who is proposing your entry
(that is, your proposer has completed form 681).
Note: You can only apply as a parent under these ‘split family’
provisions if your child in Australia is under 18 years of age.
To be eligible for the grant of a humanitarian visa under the
‘split family’ provisions for immediate family:
• you must apply within 5 years of the permanent Protection,
humanitarian or Resolution of Status visa being granted to
your proposer;
• your proposer must complete a form 681 Refugee and Special
Humanitarian Proposal (available from the Department’s
website) for you to submit together with your own visa
application;
• your proposer must have declared you to the Department as
an immediate family member before the grant of their own
visa.
Partner
‘Partner’ means your spouse or de facto partner (including
same-sex partners).
Residential address
You must advise the Department where you intend to live while
your application is being dealt with, or if you change your
residential address after your application has been lodged. Failure
to give a residential address will result in your application being
invalid. A post office box address will not be accepted as your
residential address.
Your application
You should answer the questions in this form truthfully and fully
and attach any supporting documents. Forms that are
incomplete could delay a decision being made on your
application, or your application could be refused.
Not all applicants are interviewed and a decision may be taken
on the information provided in your application only. You need
to make sure you include all details about your situation in your
application.
If you need more space than is provided in this form for any of
your answers, attach a separate page, clearly marking the
question number the page relates to. Additional pages must be
signed and dated by each person aged 18 years or over included
in this application.
Who should be included in this application?
You should include in this form ALL members of your family
unit. Your family unit includes your spouse, de facto partner
(including same-sex partner), dependent children outside
Australia and other dependent relatives who usually live with you
(eg. a dependent parent). ‘Dependent’ means wholly or
substantially dependent on you or your partner for financial,
psychological or physical support.
Details of dependent family members NOT included in your
visa application should be included at Question 12. If you fail to
declare immediate family members in your application, they may
not be able to access the ‘split family’ provisions for immediate
family members (referred to above) if they apply for a visa at a
later time.
Non-dependent family members (eg. married children or
children over 18 who are independent) should complete their
own form 842 if they wish to be considered for entry to Australia
on humanitarian grounds.
Integrity of application
The Department is committed to maintaining the integrity of
the visa and citizenship programs. Please be aware that if you
provide us with fraudulent documents or claims, this may result
in processing delays or your application being refused.
© COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA, 2024 842 (Design date 10/24) - Page 3
What documents should you attach to this application?
Two (2) passport-sized photographs of each person included in
the application, that have the name of the person written on the
back.
Supporting documents
The documents you must provide are requested throughout this
form. There is also a document checklist in Part Q of this form
and you should carefully check you have provided all the listed
documents.
You should also provide all documents necessary to support
your humanitarian claims.
Copies of documents must be certified as true copies of the
original by a Justice of the Peace, Commissioner for
Declarations, or a person before whom a Statutory Declaration
may be made under the Statutory Declarations Act 1959. Outside
Australia, a person who is equivalent to a Justice of the Peace or a
Commissioner for Declarations must certify copies.
If you do not provide all the necessary documents, a decision
may be made on the information you have provided. It is in
your interest to support your application with as much
information as possible at the time of application.
If you are not able to provide any of the documents listed at
Part Q, please provide a written explanation why the
documents are not available.
Under no circumstances should you submit false documents.
Where can you lodge this application?
Applicants wishing to be considered for a Class XB visa in the
Refugee category must lodge their form at an Australian overseas
mission. For addresses, please see the Department’s website
www.homeaffairs.gov.au/about/contact/offices-locations
Electronic lodgement is available to applicants wishing to be
considered for a Class XB visa under the Global Special
Humanitarian Program (subclass 202), the ‘split family’
provisions for immediate family members and the Community
Support Program.
Further information, including details on how to lodge a Global
Special Humanitarian (subclass 202) visa application
electronically, is available from the Department’s website
https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/visalisting/global-special-humanitarian-202
Is there an application or processing charge?
Applicants in the Community Support Program must pay a Visa
Application Charge. Further information on the Visa
Application Charge is available on the Department’s website
https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au/visas/getting-a-visa/feesand-charges/current-visa-pricing#
Other applicants do not pay a charge to lodge this application.
Is there a charge for the form?
No – forms 681, 842 and 1417 are free and may be obtained
from the Department’s website
www.homeaffairs.gov.au/allforms/
Interviews and requests for more information
Interviews are not always necessary. We will advise you if you are
required to attend an interview or if you need to provide more
documents or information.
Change of circumstances
If your circumstances change in any way after you have lodged
this form (eg. you or a family member enters into a new
relationship, becomes engaged, or marries), you must inform the
Department. If a child is born to you (or any other person
included in this application) after the application is lodged,
the child will be included in your application if details are
provided before a final decision is made on your application.
Information on updating your circumstances is available on the
Department’s website
https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au/change-in-situation
Processing information
You should be aware that there is strong interest in this class of
visa and it may take a long time to finalise your application.
You may need to have a medical and an x-ray examination as
part of the assessment of your application. You may also be asked
to undergo medical treatment as part of the assessment of the
visa application. The Australian Government reserves the right to
conduct character checks on all adult applicants. Details of your
application are not passed on to your home country.
The Australian Government will pay the costs related to medical
examinations for all humanitarian visa applicants, except those
in the Community Support Program. The Australian
Government will also pay for the travel to Australia of applicants
granted a subclass 200, 201, 203 or 204, but not 202, visa.
Important information about privacy
The Privacy Act 1988 contains 13 Australian Privacy Principles
which regulate the way that the Department collects and handles
personal information. Information about how the Department
collects, uses and discloses personal information for its key
functions can be found in form 1442i Privacy notice. More
information about the Department’s general information
handling practices (including form 1442i) can be found in the
Department’s Privacy policy at
https://www.homeaffairs.gov.au/access-and-accountability/
our-commitments/privacy
The Department is careful to protect the privacy of all
applicants. Care will be taken to make sure that details of your
application do not reach your home country.
Review rights
If your application is refused, there is no right of merits review
for the decision.
Settlement services
If you are granted a humanitarian visa (subclasses 200, 201, 202,
203 or 204), information on the personal possessions that you
may take with you to Australia is available from the office that
granted your visa.
The Department provides a range of services to help refugee and
humanitarian entrants settle in Australia. This assistance may
include being met on arrival by a service provider and taken to
accommodation, help to register for income support, help to
arrange medical appointments, information about your new
community, and attending English language classes.
Note: If you are granted a humanitarian visa in the Community
Support Program, settlement services will be provided to you by
your APO, in conjunction with any Supporting Community
Organisation.
842 (Design date 10/24) - Page 4 © COMMONWEALTH OF AUSTRALIA, 2024
Immigration assistance
A person gives immigration assistance to you if he or she uses, or
claims to use, his or her knowledge or experience in migration
procedure to assist you with your visa application, request for
ministerial intervention, cancellation review application,
sponsorship or nomination.
In Australia a person may only lawfully give immigration
assistance if he or she is a registered migration agent or is exempt
from being registered. Only registered migration agents may
receive a fee or reward for providing immigration assistance.
If an unregistered person in Australia, who is not exempt from
registration, gives you immigration assistance they are
committing a criminal offence and may be prosecuted.
Restrictions on giving immigration assistance, charging fees for
immigration assistance and restrictions on charging fees for
immigration representations apply even where the APO lodges
form 842 (this form) on behalf of a client in the Community
Support Program.
Migration agents in Australia
Migration agents in Australia must be registered with the Office
of the Migration Agents Registration Authority (Office of the
MARA) unless they are exempt from registration.
Migration agents outside Australia
Migration agents who operate outside Australia do not have to
be registered. The Department may give some overseas agents an
ID number. This number does not mean that they are registered.
Note: Some Australian registered migration agents operate
overseas.
Migration agent information
A migration agent is someone who can:
• advise you on the visa that may best suit you;
• tell you the documents you need to submit with your
application;
• help you fill in the application and submit it; and
• communicate with the Department on your behalf.
If you appoint a migration agent, the Department will assume
that your migration agent will be your authorised recipient,
unless you indicate otherwise.
Your migration agent will be the person with whom the
Department will discuss your application and from whom it will
seek further information when required.
You are not required to use a migration agent. However, if you
use a migration agent, the Department encourages you to use a
registered migration agent. Registered agents are bound by the
Migration Agents Code of Conduct, which requires them to act
professionally in their clients’ lawful best interests.
Information on migration agents, including a list of registered
migration agents, is available on the Office of the MARA website
www.mara.gov.au
You can also access information about migration agents on the
Department’s website www.homeaffairs.gov.au
Exempt persons
The following people do not have to be a registered migration
agent in order to provide immigration assistance, but they must
not charge a fee for their service:
• a close family member (spouse, de facto partner, child, parent,
brother or sister);
• a member of parliament or their staff;
• an official whose duties include providing immigration
assistance (eg. a Legal Aid provider);
• a member of a diplomatic mission, consular post or
international organisation.
Appointing a migration agent/exempt person
To appoint a migration agent/exempt person you should complete
Part M – Options for receiving written communications.
Your migration agent/exempt person should complete form 956
Advice by a registered migration agent/exempt person of providing
immigration assistance.
Form 956 is available from the Department’s website
www.homeaffairs.gov.au/allforms/
Options for receiving written communications
If you do not appoint a migration agent/exempt person you may
still authorise another person, in writing, to receive written
communications on your behalf. This person is called the
authorised recipient.
Authorised recipient information
All written communication about your application will be sent
to your authorised recipient, unless you indicate that you wish to
have health and/or character information sent directly to you. If
your visa application is subject to proposal form 681 or
form 1417 and you wish all communication to be sent to your
proposer, you will need to complete Question 18 and
Question 47 on this form.
The Department will communicate with the most recently
appointed authorised recipient as you may only appoint one
authorised recipient at any time for a particular application.
You will be taken to have received any documents sent to that
person as if they had been sent to you.
Consent to communicate by email
The Department may use a range of means to communicate
with you. However, email will only be used if you indicate your
agreement to receiving communication in this way.
To process your application the Department may need to
communicate with you about sensitive information, for example,
health, police checks, financial viability and personal
relationships. Emails, unless adequately encrypted, are not secure
and may be viewed by others or interfered with.
If you agree to the Department communicating with you by
email, the details you provide will only be used by the
Department for the purpose for which you have provided them,
unless there is a legal obligation or necessity to use them for
another purpose, or you have consented to use for another
purpose. They will not be added to any mailing list.
The Australian Government accepts no responsibility for the
security or integrity of any information sent to the Department
over the internet or by other electronic means.
If you authorise another person to receive documents on your
behalf and they wish to be contacted electronically, their
signature is required on form 956 or 956A to indicate their
consent to this form of communication.
Note: Email is the fastest means of communication available and
the Department prefers to communicate by email because this
results in faster processing.
The Australian Government prefers to communicate by email because this results in faster processing.


Important information about protection visas
Protection visas
Protection visas are for people who currently need protection from Australia and who face a real risk of significant harm if they return to their country of origin.
You may be eligible for a protection visa if you are a refugee or if you would face a significant risk of harm if you return to your country of origin.
You are not eligible for a protection visa just because you come from a violent and dangerous country or have been harmed in your country of origin.
You are not eligible for a protection visa if you can lawfully enter and settle in another country (other than your country of origin) and your safety can be guaranteed.
You may be eligible for a different visa that better suits your circumstances. See Understanding visa options (homeaffairs.gov.au) for details of other visas.
Definition of a refugee
You may be considered a refugee if you have a well-founded fear that you might be persecuted and therefore are unable or unwilling to return to your country of origin.
A well-founded fear of persecution would include:
• Fear of persecution in your country of origin because of your race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion. The reason(s) must be a fundamental and substantial reason for the persecution;
• the persecution involves serious harm, systematic and discriminatory behaviour; and
• you face a real risk of persecution in all parts of your country of origin for one or more of these reasons.
The Home Office will consider whether you can enter a region of your country of origin safely and lawfully without risk of persecution.
Suffering serious harm includes, but is not limited to:
• a threat to your life or liberty
• serious physical harassment
• serious physical abuse
• severe economic hardship that threatens your survival
• exclusion from essential services that threatens your survival
• deprivation of all means of livelihood that threatens your survival.
You will be considered to have no well-founded fear of persecution if the government of your country of origin or a political party/organisation that controls all or a substantial part of your country of origin is able to protect you from persecution and is willing and able to provide such protection in the foreseeable future.
You will be considered to have no well-founded fear of persecution if you can take reasonable steps to change your behaviour to avoid the possibility of persecution in your country of origin, unless such a change in behaviour would:
• conflict with a fundamental feature of identity or conscience
• conceal a natural or unchangeable characteristic
• require you to change, hide or cease religious beliefs or political views
• hide your true race, ethnicity, nationality or national origin
• hide a disability (physical, mental or intellectual)
• require you to enter into or remain in a forced marriage, or to accept a child in a forced marriage
• change or hide your sexual orientation, gender identity or intersex status.
Real and substantial risk of harm
If you are not a refugee, we will consider whether there are good grounds to conclude that it would be a necessary and foreseeable consequence of your removal from Australia to your country of origin that you would face a real and substantial risk of harm, and whether there is protection available to you from the government in your country of origin that would prevent you from facing a real and substantial risk of harm. The following are considered to be significant harm:
• Arbitrary deprivation of life
• Death penalty
• Torture
• Cruel or inhuman treatment or punishment; or
• Degrading treatment or punishment.
You are not considered to be at a real risk of significant harm if:
• The harm you fear is not significant
• You can reasonably live safely in another part of your country of origin
• The government of your country of origin can offer you protection
• The risk of harm is general to the people of your country of origin, not just you.
If you are a refugee or at a real risk of significant harm, Australia must offer you protection. Check out Australia's protection obligations
(homeaffairs.gov.au) to find out what this means.
What happens if your application for a protection visa is refused?
If you apply for a protection visa and it is refused, it is unlikely that you will be granted another visa while you are in Australia.
Once you leave Australia, it will be very difficult for you (and your family) to return to Australia. The refusal of your application for a protection visa may be taken into account when a future visa application is considered and may affect the outcome of your visa application.
Your responsibilities when applying for protection
You must clearly explain why you need protection in Australia and provide complete and accurate information to the Department of Home Affairs as soon as possible.
It is the applicant's responsibility to provide detailed protection application information and supporting evidence before the Department of Home Affairs makes a decision.
Even if you use an Australian registered migration agent to apply for you, you are still responsible for ensuring that you apply for the right type of visa and comply with the visa conditions.
The Department of Home Affairs website has a list of registered migration agents. Please follow these steps to choose a migration agent (mara.gov.au).
Penalties for submitting false application materials
When applying for a protection visa, applicants must sign a declaration.
Submitting false or misleading information is a serious offence in Australia and may result in criminal penalties.
Submitting false or misleading information during the visa application process may result in a heavy fine and/or 10 years imprisonment.
If you submit false or misleading information, your visa may be refused or revoked.


[From: https://immi.homeaffairs.gov.au/programs-subsite/files/protection-visa-translations/important-protection-visa-information-simplified-chinese.PDF]
